in the lifestream wrong button welcome
everyone this is the IP LD weekly call
its September the 9th 2019 and it's the
same as every week we go over the ich
over the stuff that we've done in the
past week and then it's cus whatever you
want to discuss so um do we have a
volunteer for note-taking thanks rod and
yeah so I as always I start with myself
so I've been the I think past two
meetings I've been at phosphor G
conference which is the free and open
source for geospatial conference it's a
global conference every year with about
1,000 attendees and I gave two talks one
about Jillian ipfs and one about steak
on ILD
if you wanna more wanna know more just
check out the notes there the talks the
recordings are linked and other than
that I worked on getting Jas ipfs repo
updated to the newest version within
Shay s ipfs which is harder than it
sounds and I could be working so I
headed over to the trails ipfs team
because it was just a huge time sink so
I want to help them out but it's just
totally pointless and I've already spent
like but we could ruin it and it's just
and there were any stories of problems
so they
ask them to take it over all right then
next is Eric so we didn't do the meeting
last week very successfully while you
were out so I've got kind of a combined
update set rod and I did a bunch of work
on schema syntax stuff and cleaning that
up and making sure everybody's on the
same page in our implementations are in
sync we've done a lot of talking about
details for configuring advanced data
layouts and one thing we've also tried
to formalize more is the idea that we
probably need some sort of any concept
in the schema system once turned out to
be a little elusive we've had some sort
of placeholder references to it
scattered around
we took a stab at drafting what an any
would look like that's described within
the current system and I think we found
that it doesn't fit so that's a little
dissatisfying and I don't know if we've
come up with the idea of what we do want
to do it might go back on the backburner
to stew for a while go like no deep run
has gotten more code in it there's some
some nice free factors like path segment
is now a rarified concept and it is
either a string or an int and the
implementation does reasonably efficient
things with this as much as you can and
go and some of those reef actors will
probably have performance improvements
to selectors already because what it was
doing previously
I found out after a lot of benchmark
assembly read is there were some parts
of the selector system that would cause
really excessive amounts of small
allocations to make these like wrapper
objects and the new path
let's do that so it's a nice improvement
koujun has started to get some don't
repeat yourself thing of the health is
all very belatedly because it's
sometimes hard to guess where the
correct not repeating yourself will be
but some patterns it started to I
started doing it last week I was looking
at the system for the note builder being
able to return more node builders for
child fields this was something that I
didn't see coming
super early on but became a lot there as
the system progressed basically
recursion is necessary on the node
builder side alone not just on the node
side because when you are for example
doing D serialization into a system with
any sort of constraints on the values it
can accept you need to provide a node
builder for your child values that
carries those constraints through so he
had a schema system this would need to
contain logical constraints if you had
something that was just bound to native
typed code at all okay those constraints
so this turned out to be necessary and
it also shouldn't have to be easier than
I thought so that's in and so last week
after that gotta know is thinking G
serialization VOCs that work across the
holster this system might be in reach
and they work those are now done I
simultaneously don't want to oversell
this but oh my gosh I'm really excited
there is now a small POC of code
generated structs and a D serialization
system that just once fairly
transparently still reusing all the
Codex nothing non cogent stuff was using
so that's nice and basically it worked
with no abstraction that's blowing up
in an unusable way so so that milestone
basically seems like everything is on
track
and it's I don't want to oversell it
because it's a very small fraction of
the amount of work to do in Cochin
overall in the future but so it worked
so yeah it was a good week a link for
that I know because a lot of the dip is
still on my local host and I want to
clean it up into about five different
commits tonight so when you say pee I
say what one form is that is a tests is
a separate project or it will be in a
branch and it'll land on master and go I
feel I'm probably pretty quick I've just
been doing all that stuff it's in the
the schema package and then we Jen going
package inside of that and I'm keeping
that thing tab but sort of a desperate
way like the feature completeness and
stuff and mastering those packages if
that answers your question so like uh
we're just wondering what what form it
is is it is it like is this a thing that
you can run is I think well how can you
look at it what is it is it tests is it
just code a little bit of tests trying
to come up with a good test framework
for this well yeah when you get Co gen
involved it's just there's some because
the thing that goes on yeah there's
nothing that's super satisfying
so that's that's where that's at
ci is not currently exercising that so
that's a kind of serious piece of tech
bet to worry about soon there are tests
but you have to go into that directory
and run the cogent first and those tests
so this includes the whole set of
concerns around regular fields optional
fields knowable fields and optional
multiple fields inspect what's touchy so
so as to making that more serious I
don't know that test stuff needs to
improve a lot there's lots of nonsense
filling in like you can imagine how big
the feature matrix is across all of the
kinds times all of the representations
so there's like one row and column
through that one I think that's yeah
something else has been cool good good
progress while I wasn't here so come and
next on my list is rod okay so I had
some time off last week at my sister in
town and I was
having a beretta breather but um so from
that the last most of the last two weeks
has been all about schemas in three
areas there's the specs the Jaya sponsor
and the go passer so on the spec front
been trying to pull everything into a
unified place so the specs are really
called for how everything's done there
were some loose edges like Jeremy had
had gone off and implemented a couple of
proposed changes in his go parser that
were doing respects I'm worried in the
Jaya sponsor and so pretty many respects
and then putting the J's parser and then
making some tests for it
so that kind of thing that puts
reunification activity trying to
finalize advanced layout basic advanced
layout syntax and the ampersand link
shorthand syntax as well in the spec
that that the latter one is done as as
Eric said we're still circling around
this anytime which is sort of required
for this but I think we've can't with a
whale a special case it in this case I
think but in respects here they're in
the specs the any type is still loose
but that can be that can be hunted to
later I have a test suite now that is
usable across languages so that was the
original tension intention when I
started writing all these fixtures for
testing basic usage and I I spent a lot
of time in in go in goal and you know
mainly getting used to it all but also
seeing if I could put pull Jeremy's
stuff into line with the rest of the
stuff I've got and so I've got a test
framework now around Jeremy's work I
haven't put a pull request into there so
I don't know I don't know yet how well
it's gonna suit what he's using it for
now or whether we need to fork it and
and Joe in a slightly different
direction because he's using a some code
and stuff director Seymour not connected
to IPL d-prime so I'll have that
conversation with Jeremy in the next
couple days I hope via pull request
yeah but hopefully the aim is to get
this advanced and link stuff sorted out
then that unlocks Michael the oh I guess
we can do
Michael next but I did want to talk
about the advanced layout basic syntax
because that's the only thing that I've
been here is the syntax for well I think
the filing is pretty easy using it is I
don't have has been just discussion
overnight anyway Michael I'll let you do
your update can I sneak back in first
you reminded me what I was trying to
remember to disclaim earlier there's one
more big part of the dependency tree and
go IPL D prime for the co gem that is
extremely placeholder E right now and
it's actually the data structures for
representing the schema types itself
they are currently
hand-rolled and I think that's going to
be fine because I want those to be like
natively very they're gonna lookin yeah
but the Constructors for those are
currently a bunch of functions which are
called temp do not use me sort of
they're just very very sharp edged
constructors and the only way to create
these values currently is in go code so
the go IPL D prime codebase is missing
any parser of schemas or direct loader
of those and all the code gen is
currently powered by those values that
you can only create my those placeholder
functions so it's a big obvious in one
place sort of placeholders at least but
another though kind of the good news
around this is hopefully we can take a
bunch of that stuff from Jeremy's
projects that Rob is now working and
that's
going just fit it in this lot but at the
moment I've been pumping on that
assuming it will fit nicely disclaimer
finished all right it's time for life or
something you know yeah so um okay so
unique 52 made a ton of progress we now
can like encode files and directories
recursively in JavaScript and spit out
blocks and all that to the stuff and
there's a little camera and utility for
debugging it I'm still lacking tests and
just electing like I've read interface
and we will file system and all that
stuff so there's more work to do but
that's not coming together you never see
one changes are like this is just like
the issue that never goes away
um there's now like just a general
conversation about like which properties
do we actually need to have but
hopefully that'll get resolved soon
enough and I heard at this point we need
to have a conversation not only about
what properties that want to have the
whole we want to do by default which is
probably no change from what we have
today but anyway and then oh yeah okay
ours there is an issue that or sorry
I'll pull request that everybody should
comment on for okay ours for next
quarter which we need to finish up this
week there's also an issue in the
roadmap repo we're reaching out to our
dependencies to try and surface what
they need so please look into that and
there's an issue in the new repo called
auto around automating some team
permissions and there's a bunch of
permission changes that need to land it
will land once that gets nerfed in so
please take a look at that before I go
and change a bunch of
some repose to make sure that looks sane
I think that's about yeah what's written
I gotta all right cool
and so I guess we can come back to the I
forgot what God wanted to talk about but
there was something I'm just trying to
capture Michaels there I think I might
need a couple of links from Michael's
work but come back to that
so my whether the one I wanted you guys
to look at is issue number 119 this
Beck's repo and then if you scroll down
to Eric's comment X in Eric's comic the
first comic there and in ignore the
angle bracket bit in the X coming that's
the that's the current proposal broad
proposal for defining advance layouts in
your schemas and then using them so the
angle brackets are not in play here that
may come later but the way you would do
it is you would use the keyword advanced
you give it a name the AL thing is I
guess that keeps on coming back we need
some way of identifying so it's if we're
gonna have that then sure I know Erica
you how do you how are you feeling about
that Alex thing because I know we've
gone on and off with that seems like
it's relevant if we're gonna have
parameters and yeah seems like we keep
strongly suspecting that we're gonna
want to have parameters I occasionally
find the parameters one questionable
but if we keep instinctively thinking
that we're gonna happen then like I
don't have strong arguments against
having them right okay well I mean if we
if we do that so we advance and you give
it an arbitrary name and then our giz
where you could use it to connect it to
logic or connected to a scene somewhere
some something that does the logic the
params stuff can that's not like that's
sort of future work it's not necessary
to move forward right now and then to
use them you you would have to use this
representation thing so if you had a
like a hampt then you would say type
whatever map so use that usually the
kind then you say represent
representation advanced and then you
give it the advanced name and then you
can use it like through string the
shorthand version is a little more
complicated and I think we should punt
on any shorthand for now and that's the
tenor of the discussion that's right as
well so I just wanted to just see if we
can make if we could get some basic
progress on this because once we can and
I can merge some stuff and start making
all the code pull in the direction so to
me it sounds fine but I'm not as deep
into schemas as Erika hmm so I'm looking
at a comment and there's that alpha one
which adults are one of the father a
issue number 119 and if you're in the
same issue oh sorry I think I mean 182
sorry yeah it's so I pulled this
particular question out into 190 it's
it's so for what it's worth I do I'm
gonna
only angle brackets I don't know if I
really believe that will have a strong
desire for template mechanisms later
either but that's my belief of that is
of the weak form where I'm not sure that
trade offs make sense rather than the
strong form of I think this is morally
valid from some sort of important first
principle so and the rest of your
argument around that stands so yeah and
I'm also convinced but yeah trying to
have an inline shorthands it's not the
most important thing in the world
um can is there some way to associate a
schema with an advanced layout for the
internal representation of the blocks in
the advanced lab so I keep tending to
things that that might be useful but if
so is almost entirely an implementation
detail that belongs inside Avance layout
and having it referenced from outside
where we're using it it's right right
right so well so like like advanced
rot13 bracket like inside of that i want
to basically associate just emailing
this good being there yeah my current
theory is that whatever you're referring
to if that alec thing should include
both the logic end if necessary the
schema
so for example in in the with the HAMP
the hab self would come along with a
schema and it would it would use the
schemer internally and and then to use
the hand you would declare I and
advanced hashmap and then some name that
we can't with yes but they're meant and
then you defer to the HAMP to decide how
to deal with it's been scheme and stuff
there's this discussion about saying
making assertions about the route block
and being able to traverse all the way
in but kind of agree with Eric at the
moment that it's the utility of that is
probably limited to the point where the
complexity gets out of hand and maybe
it's not worth even going down that
rabbit hole just you I mean I I mean I
would use that immediately like I would
be able to ingest a single file and then
spit out the entire API for it
essentially and then you would just need
to hook into you would need it like Oh
give me the events layout only insofar
as any bad logic to it it would already
do all the schema validation for you so
and and I mean the difference between
having like hooking it up after the fact
from a different file and having it in
file just means that it's a less
compelling design language because now I
have to have a separate file for every
index layout that I ever created which
is just annoying and I really don't know
what the parameters are for I really
don't understand that like these are
gonna have to be encoded into the actual
block structure so they belong and
schema so if this isn't where the schema
is then I don't know what these brands
are for this is usage though this is
this is not on declaring the advanced
now this is heavy you have a highly user
defensemen so in this case rot13 is some
advanced layout that's defined elsewhere
and it's it's got its own place with the
logic and the ended schema lives and
this is a user saying I want to pull
that thing off the shelf and use it so
why why wouldn't you just encode the
algorithm into the block structure that
no so the out the algorithm
and identify that could have been named
they could have been identified that our
guys Justin named Erica with silly okay
well like even then okay all right so
like what I don't like about this isn't
it we're we're taking some kind of
parameter defining it here and it's not
actually being encoded in the data
necessarily which is problematic like
it's my instinct to just say like if
it's not in the data than it doesn't
exist and if you want to set up if you
want to pass a parameter you pass it in
when you create the data structure so I
I think we gotta be careful with the
whole premise thing let's not get caught
up on it because it's still that's a
separate issue that I think we can we
can punt on because but you know it is
questionable whether they even useful my
the way I was conceiving it was this
would solve the some of those concerns
the far quantum had about those
parameters and not wanting them to go
into root blocks because they're always
fixed so you could say in the file coins
Beck I'm using hampt and the parameters
aren't this always this whereas in our
use cases you could say you could leave
that concern to code layer or perhaps
there's an option in the in the in the
logic Falls of the advanced layout that
always encodes it no matter what you're
providing there like you might provide
big width of 13 and it still write bid
with of 13 into the block but your
schemer is the thing that is directing
the logic to do that it rather than
doing it via code so you you know it's
just it's just the path to getting those
parameters into the logic user end of it
yeah yeah I know why they're asking for
that and I'm sympathetic but it's also a
bad practice but I think I mean we've
got we've gone over this leg like dozens
of times but like things need to be self
describing and that means putting this
into the data like if they don't want
the params to be encoded into the data
then they just need to come up with some
sane defaults that we'll assume and that
will be part
of like the bitter part of the schema
like the schema for the advanced layout
rather than a parameter of each asana
like that should be a fixed thing it
should not be like yeah if you want it
yeah if you want to set an arbitrary
default for a parameter then do it in
the schema for the advanced layout don't
do it in the parameterization of usage
because then you can change it you can
take the same data and adjust those
parameters which is like a level of
flexibility that we probably don't want
to give people because then they'll
create less self-describing data
structures so I think the question we
want to narrow in on for the moment no
they're agreeing or disagreeing with the
pram saying because the thing we Rob
wants to narrow in on I think in order
to figure out what to do with parsers is
is there more than literally one unit of
information like more than one scalar
that is going to go into the definition
of an advanced layout because if there's
more than one and we won't have a block
syntax like this so I just posted
another comment there which boiled down
Eric's example further get rid of params
so my example in my examples I had the
name of the advanced layout being the
thing that would tie that thing to the
logic or as Erik's suggesting we go back
to this idea where you have some name
that identifies it and that you could
like I just put a little expression
there just for example that this is an
arbitrary string that is some somewhere
is in some registry or mapping that says
this thing it's the code it you can
connect it with code here and maybe in
in go you would have compile flags that
would say when you encounter IPL D slash
rot13 then you should connect with this
github repo which has the older code in
it and so pull it all together to do
koujun Thank You marina faces yeah no
that makes sense I just don't want it to
be required because we just don't we
don't have we don't have that system yet
and we won't in the first few iterations
so I just want to make sure that you can
create these without attaching this name
to it if you don't need it
the alternative is to like I don't think
I don't actually don't think that that
is required at all for now like we could
let me just do another comment there
which is just completely remove that
block and the name advance is what
you're connecting so the name of the
behind advance is what you can evening
so you know - - map rot13 and then point
it to a place it's just when you do that
now you still have flexibility when you
do that we're gonna have something that
maps that nap string rot13 - logic yeah
well I mean like so when you shove this
through like the semi code anything that
I have like all of the api's that come
out of it are named the type names and
and you would also end up with like a
class called rot13 that was the advanced
layout class and so you would basically
hook into that to add any logic to it
for the time being
or I guess you would also have to use
give that in order to attach more schema
to it but so what about when we like
this thing we come up with or we have
let's say let's take hash map for
example it's a complex bundle of logic
we're gonna export and then people are
going to say advanced hash map and
they're going to connect that to our
logic does that flow work in what you're
conceiving now with your JavaScript code
gene and just concerned that you're too
close to the user when we're actually
exporting concrete things we don't need
you to code gen hash map we have it we
just need you to have a place where it
yep what you're using yes yes I mean
yeah it would be like one line like I
didn't pour your hash map library and
then I would take my code so like right
near your schema you're referencing hand
the thing that I spit out would give you
a hand class and then you would call a
method on it and pass in whatever module
thing you wrote to actually implement
that yeah so it's like one line the user
has to just configure that and yeah well
if that if that bottom one if that works
for now like that gives us actually
space to evolve to dynamic algorithm
names or parameters or whatever later on
for now that seems to me to be the most
basic that we could use right now yeah
that's fine and as far as like oh
another option too is that when I do the
gym I can pass in the implementation of
the advanced layout so that by the time
that it hits them it already actually
had the ability that's another well that
would be I think that would be the go
style which would I think with
JavaScript as well that's probably
better um yeah I mean I I would at some
point in the future like to be able to
define the schema for an advanced layout
in the same file as another schema just
for simplicity of design language but I
mean for right now I can just make them
separate files it's fine
because I'm gonna have to ask them all
and independently anyway so okay make
sense yeah I think the one thing that I
care about
for the syntax here that's just a lot of
this whole discussion is as long as the
word advanced is a keyword and it starts
all the way on the left side I'm happy
about that and as long as something also
appears in the vicinity of that
representation thing so it doesn't have
like a namespace in collision with the
built in representations and I'm mmm and
that last suggestion has those two major
boxes checked in the rest I'm it's just
a little token very it's a lot of type
through string string representation
advanced route 13
yeah it is but it will be interesting
with we get favorite that's that's on
you I mean having dealt with the schema
syntax a bit it does make sense it's
just it's honestly too weak yeah I mean
the weird thing to me actually is just
seeing representation on the same line
as the rest of it because usually the
representation is coming after like an
angle bracket somewhere because usually
using it like in a union but no it does
make sense though do we need do we
actually need the advanced keyword in
that line though yes okay but you
already are okay well yeah I guess if
you if you haven't actually yes yeah
what you end up with is like a flat
structure out of it so you don't have
ordering and so you can't say like oh
that was already defined up there yeah
yeah okay okay okay that's they have a
fixed list of representation types for
every kind basically and advanced edible
for every kind right right and like I do
need to know that it's representing
itself as a string yep and that and this
this gives us that flexibility again
like I still don't I'm not that
comfortable with not when you define
advanced rot13 saying that that's what
kind it is I still would rather have a
kind there but but it does remove any
duplication and it allows you to reuse
an advanced layout as different kinds if
it could do like you could use a a HAMP
to say as a list an unordered list if
you wanted to you know I have been where
yeah yeah I mean so when you think about
the usage once you have these in
multiple files and you're sort of
passing them around
the type that comes out of one schema
will end up you'll actually end up
attaching them the here's how to treat
this is a screen logic to that type and
then probably passing that type into the
next schema Potter's that uses that as
in the back layout so you'll probably
even end up with some symmetry in the
naming as well just for convenience hmm
well let's let's do this let's do this
this week and let's see how it shakes
out and and hopefully it works but if
not we can we can adjust all right do we
have anything else anyone we already 10
minutes over tonight all right then I
close the meeting and say goodbye and
see you all next week and stop the
recording stop the livestream